# Linkage to geospatial measures
## Overview
UK LLC links to geospatial measures using the same Trusted Third Party (TTP), Digital Health and Care Wales (DHCW), used for health data linkage. DHCW send participant's address information where permissions allow to University of Leicester (UoL). Before data is sent to UoL, the UK LLC also prepare and join a batch of 'masking' addresses. 

## DATA FLOW DIAGRAM

## Masking address
The masking addresses are true address but they do not neccessarly belong to UK LLC participants. The masking address are appended to the real address at DHCW before being supplied to UoL. Masking addresses at generated at a ratio of 3:1 (Masking:Real). The purpose of this is to minimise disclosure risk associated with location based information. The Masking addresses are proportionally selected (at random) from OS AddressBase Plus based on key attributes about the Longtiduinal Population Studies (LPS) that have participants with permission to link. The key attributes include number of participants, age of cohort, and spatial buffers aligned with their catchment areas. This allows the masking address to more accurately represent the UK LLC population as a whole. Therefore studies with geographically constrainted populations e.g. EXCEED (Leicester) drive the generation of more masking addresses around the Leicester area. 

## Geocoding permissions 
There are currently 8 LPS that allow participants to be linked to geospatial measures generated by UoL. These permissions are configurable to allow linkage at the household level using Unique Property Reference Number (UPRN) or to the postcode level. Where postcode level is selected the nearest household (UPRN) to the centre of the postcode centroid is geocoded. The locations for these participants are therefore not as precise as those who are geocoded to the household level. When geocoding the household (UPRN) the central property coordinate is used.  

## What is geocoding
Geocoding is the assigning of geographical coordinates to a location. The following address data is provided by the LPS:
* Address line 1 (Premise Level)
* Address line 2 (Street name)
* Address line 3 (Locality name)
* Address line 4 (Town)
* Address line 5 (Administrative Area)
* Postcode
These data are then matched using a database lookup to convert the physical address into geographical coordinates.

## Experian...
