# Requesting an amendment
## Types of amendments
Amendments to projects fall into the following five categories:
1.	**Request new data**. 
2.	**Add/remove a researcher**. 
3.	**Move organisation**. 
4.	**Extend TRE access period**. 
5.	**Change research question**. 

## Apply for an amendment
Amendments must come either from the **PI of the project** or the **PI must be copied in**.
1. Download the appropriate amendment form from the [**Resources for Researchers SharePoint**](https://uob.sharepoint.com/teams/grp-UKLLCResourcesforResearchers/Shared%20Documents/Forms/AllItems.aspx?as=json&id=%2Fteams%2Fgrp%2DUKLLCResourcesforResearchers%2FShared%20Documents%2FGeneral&viewid=a09377b5%2Df072%2D4f89%2Db4d6%2De72a134bc7b8), which is accessible to all researchers active in the TRE.
2. **Complete the form fully**, following the instructions detailed on each form.
3. **Email** the completed form to the **UK LLC Applications Team**: [**access@ukllc.ac.uk**](access@ukllc.ac.uk). 

Your request will be reviewed by the **UK LLC Applications Team** and if you are requesting new data, input may also be sought from the **UK LLC Data Access Committee** (DAC) and individual **LPS DACs**.  

Each **approved amendment** is indicated by an **increment to the letter appended to the project reference number**, e.g. llc_0006_a is the original approved application for project llc_0006 and llc_0006_b is the first approved amendment.

UK LLC **informs the LPS** of all amendments to projects that involve their data and **informs the UK Statistics Authority** of amendments to projects that use the **Digital Economy Act** as their legal gateway to access administrative data.

The **length of the approval process** varies depending on the **type** of amendment and the associated **due diligence** requirements.

Specific information about each type of amendment is detailed below.

## 1. Request new data
You can request access to additional data from **already approved LPS**, and/or access to data from **additional LPS**, and/or access to additional linked data. Each type of data amendment requires a different level of review as detailed below:

1.	**Additional data** from **previously approved LPS**:  
a)	Standard sensitivity data - review by UK LLC  
b)	Elevated sensitivity data - review by LPS DACs  
c)	Returned (derived) data - review by LPS DACs.

2.	Data from **new LPS** - review by LPS DACs (if the data are linked then review also by UK LLC Linked Data Review Panel).  

3.	**Additional linked data** - review by LPS DACs & UK LLC Linked Data Review Panel.

UK LLC checks that the request for new data falls within the **scope of the approved project**. If the request falls outside the scope, the research team is invited to submit a **new application**.   
 
## 2. Add/remove a researcher
### Add a researcher
**Note**: UK LLC does **not** need to be notified about new collaborators on a project who will **not access the TRE**.   

The UK LLC Applications Team checks the **suitability of a new researcher** and their **research organisation**, including their **Accredited Researcher status**. If the researcher is from an organisation already involved in the project, the new researcher need only complete a UK LLC **Data User Responsibilities Agreement (DURA)**, but if they come from a new organisation, a **Data Access Agreement (DAA)** between their organisation and the UoB will need to be implemented. 

### Remove a researcher
You must **notify UK LLC** when a researcher **leaves** a project so that their **access** to the TRE can be **terminated**.

## 3. Move organisation
You must **notify UK LLC** when a researcher **moves organisation** so that the UK LLC Applications Team can check the **suitability** of the **new organisation**, including its information security credentials. If the researcher moves to an organisation not yet covered by a DAA for the project, a new **DAA** will be required. The researcher will need to complete a new **DURA**.

## 4. Extend TRE access period
Researchers are sent **reminders** at 90 days, 25 days and 24 hours that their **access** to the TRE is **coming to an end**. If you anticipate requiring **more time** in the TRE to complete your analyses, you must **notify UK LLC** in good time. The UK LLC Applications Team assesses whether the extension request is **reasonable and realistic**, and whether the Accredited Researcher status of each researcher surpasses the new project end date. For researchers whose Accredited Researcher status falls short, extension to the TRE is set to the expiry date of their status. 

## 5. Change research question
All your analyses must lie within the **approved scope** of your original project. If you feel that your research question is shifting or you would like to amend your research question, you must submit an amendment. The UK LLC Applications Team will determine if the amended or new research question would require a **new lay summary**. If so you will be invited to submit a **new application**. 
