# FAQs about working with administrative ('admin') data
>Last modified: 06 Feb 2026
<div style="background-color: rgba(0, 178, 169, 0.3); padding: 10px; border-radius: 5px;"><strong>Answers to researchers' questions about working with linked admin data.</strong></div style>  
<br>
<details>
<summary>What is administrative data?</summary>

Administrative data are the records generated by government service providers as part of 
everyone's daily life - such as education, employment, tax and benefits records.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Will admin data be available for all partner LPS?</summary>

No, not all LPS will be included in the linkage to admin data. Each LPS has their own set of conditions that have been agreed with their participants. Some LPS may not yet have appropriate permissions in place and require further engagement with their participants before further linkages can take place. The LPS for which linkage to admin data has been confirmed are shown on the [Available linkages](../LPS_data/Linkages/LPS_linkages.md) page.
</details>

<details>
<summary>When will linked HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) data be available for researchers to request?</summary>

Data are likely to available towards the end of 2026.
</details>

<details>
<summary>When will linked Department for Work & Pensions (DWP) data be available for researchers to request?</summary>

Data are likely to available towards the end of 2026.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Will linked education be available in the UK LLC TRE?</summary>

Negotiations are ongoing with the UK's devolved authorities to make four nations education data available in the TRE.
</details>  
<br>  

**Further information will be added to this page once administrative data are available in the UK LLC Trusted Research Environment.**  